>> Mike North: Now that we have messages,
let's get them rendered on the screen,
right?
I mean, for a while now since
the beginning of the course where we
refactored messages into
a template only component,
we've seen these same
three repeated messages.
So let's see if we can
render something different.
In order to do that, we have to find
a way for this component to sort of
expose this messages' value
to its contents, right?
It's a container component, it needs
to show messages to what it contains.
And here's how we do that,
we use this yield helper.
And you can think of this
as invoking a callback.
Just like when we were using each,
or it's like array.for each and
you pass it this function and within
the function it has access to an item.
We can do the same thing here.
So what I'm gonna do is yield and
pass this yield dislike,
invoke the callback and
I'm going to pass it an argument.
>> Mike North: What this let's us
do is if we go back to channel.hbs,
we're gonna bring this down here so
we can see above and below.
>> Mike North: Our chat container now can
use the same syntax we saw with each,
which will look like this, as messages.
>> Mike North: And now, we can
consume the messages value down here.
>> Mike North: And let's just see
if they got logged to the console.
So there's our empty array.
So good sign, that's not null,
that's not undefined.
And what I want us to do is
iterate over that empty array or
iterate over the array,
whatever it may be,
>> Mike North: Each messages as M.
And we're gonna
pass,
>> Mike North: We're
gonna pass that message, the entire
object, to the message component.
And all of our messages have disappeared.
This makes sense,
we're iterating over an empty array,
we don't expect any of these
components to show up.
What's left is we have to go
back to our chat container, and
think about this load messages function.
We didn't do, we defined it,
pretty sure it's correct,
but we haven't kicked it off yet.
So we're gonna do something that is
a little different from what you're
used to if you're, used Ember for a while,
we need a life cycle hook, right?
So in React,
this would be component didn't mount.
In older Ember,
this would be did insert element, right?
Something that is triggered when the
components initially dropped into the DOM
and this comes by way of modifiers.
And what's cool about
this is we're no longer
working with the lifecycle of a component.
We are dealing with the lifecycle
of individual DOM elements,
which means if you have a piece of DOM
that is it like inside an F, right?
And you want whenever this is inserted,
it has to run this action, and
you're toggling it, shown,
hidden, shown, hidden.
Now, that hook is gonna be fired
every time it's reinserted, right?
So this really all along has
been an element concern,
not necessarily a component concern.
So you can have different actions
that are firing at different times,
each scope and pertaining to whatever
DOM element it's attached to.
And here's how it looks.
Did insert this.load,
think they called it load messages,
yep, perfect, load messages.
And there we go.
Now, it's still the same message.
It's shown twice here.
Let me do a reload real quick,
three four times here so
I'll buy that the array is of a different
size as we go through these things.
Now, it's not perfect.
Cannot read property ID of undefined.
Seems like there's still
some work to do here.
>> Mike North: We have to consider
the case of changing channels.
And It's a little bit tricky here, but
Ember is trying to change as
little of the HTML as possible.
And what that means is, this component
on the right side of the screen,
although we can kind of think of
it being torn down and rerendered,
it's just actually changing its data.
Because as we go from channel to
channel to channel within a team,
we're not going to a different route.
We're just changing the dynamic
segments in that route.
We call this an in-place transition.
So we need to kinda specify that
whenever a particular value updates,
we should run load messages again, and
we can do that with another modifier here.
>> Mike North: Did update,
call this load messages?
And we're gonna pass it the channel.
So whenever the channel changes,
we're going to rerun
this load messages hook.
And now we should see four messages here,
two messages here four messages here.
So I'll buy that and I can see the API
calls at the bottom, see that XHR?
so looks like we're fetching data,
were properly re-rendering creating our
new array each time this is happening.
This looks good.
I'd like to see the content
of these messages.
Let's looks at the message HBS file and
start to take advantage of the fact that
we are now passing a message
ARG to the component.
So what we can do here is
use message.user.name.
We can use our format timestamp function.
Remember that helper we made.
I think it's message.createdAt,
I'll do a quick save, okay.
So now we're getting different names
here popping up, in different dates for
that matter, different time stamps.
This is real data from our back
end driving these components.
Here's an avatar URL so
we can delete that and replace it with,
I think it's message user icon URL.
Awesome, and just scanning quickly for
other things, obviously,
the body of the message, Message.body.
Look, different messages now.
We can change channels and see different
stuff, still got this error here.
I'm gonna dig into that in just a moment.
Yeah, why not dig into it now, so
cannot read property id of undefined.
It's the before model hook in the team,
index route.
>> Mike North: So there's no team,
that's interesting.
You know what it is?
I left in a little, remember our hackery
like we could pick the zeroes channel or
the first channel.
This should be channel 0 so I'm checking
for is the length greater than zero.
And then here I was
assuming that it was 2.
Silly mistake, it's what I get for
trying different iterations of things.
So now it should be working smoothly.
You can go to different,
smoothly minus a debugger,
we should be able to
go to different teams.
See lots of different messages,
different channels within those teams.
Very data driven app now,
it's making API calls,
lot of different stuff showing up now.
Our URLs are working nicely.
So this app is really
taking shape at this point.
Go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: I'm making two calls to
messages on page load, and
seemingly on switches as well.
>> Mike North: Interesting,
let's see what's going on.
You know what I could probably do?
>> Mike North: Let's try
removing the did-insert.
>> Mike North: Nope,
we need that initial thing to fire off.
>> Mike North: So
what we would probably want to do, yeah I-
>> Speaker 2: It's like I did receive
errors.
>> Mike North: So I see on the initial
load, I'm only making one call here.
So let's clear that out and
change channels.
I see I'm only making one call here,
changing channels.
Let's try changing teams.
I'm gonna clear this out.
>> Mike North: All right,
I am not seeing duplicate calls made so
I'm happy to take a look at
your code at the next break.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Mike North: But this looks right to me.
So did-insert,
that's only on the first insert and
did update is only on subsequent
updates not on the insert.
So this should handle the first and
then second through nth,
which is just what we want.
The reason we have to
pass channel here is the,
just has to do with giving it an extra
clue that whenever channel changes,
we should consider that to
be an update as opposed to
other things updating as did
update is designed to handle.
So let's check the test real quick.
>> Mike North: All right,
chat container test,
we haven't looked at
cuz this is the first.
This our container component unit here.
Let's hide past tests.
So that's the only one that's failing.
And for time purposes as we have already
done quite a bit of test writing,
I'm gonna skip writing this test with you.
I do wanna make one point before
before we skip too hard here.
The benefit of testing
a container component,
the reason it becomes easier once
you take the presentation away
is you could do channel equals
whatever and then as messages.
And you could render this as just H1s or
an unordered list or whatever, or
some very simple, easy to assert
against DOM structure that doesn't
even closely resemble the way you
would use this container for real.
Because this thing's job is
just to expose that data or
to provide you with actions or whatnot.
But you can find very nice
ways of making your life easy,
just, for example, it might yield
out six arrays, only one or two of which
are visible at any particular time.
And instead of worrying about testing this
in all of the different states, you can
just spit everything out and assert that
it's all there and do it all in one shot.
So I'll just point that out.
But I don't wanna spend too much more time
since we've covered a lot
of testing ground so far.
So all of the other tests are passing.